Md. N urul Islam
. . . Great Free Fonts
Sr. Software Engineer at Relisource Technologies
Date of Birth : 29th November 1989
Mobile : +880-1775-994477
E-mail : nuibb3§@grnaiLC,om
Github :https;llgithub.,c,om/,n,ui,bb
LinkedIn : https://www.1inkedin.com/in/nuibbhasan
HackerRank: https: //www.hackerrankcom/nuibbhasan
SKILLS
0 Mobile : Swift, Objective -C, Titanium, Flutter, XCode, Titanium Studio
0 Data Science : Python, R, Tensorflow, Keras, Jupyter Notebook, Colab, R Studio, Tableau
o Chatbots : Amazon Skill Kit, Dialogue Flow, Google Home, Alexa
0 Web : Java, JavaScript, Python, PyCharm, Intelli] IDEA, VS Code
0 Databases: SQL, SQLite
0 Computer Vision : OpenCV
0 Version control: Git, SVN
o DevOps : Docker, Jenkins
0 Agile tools : Trello, Pivotal Tracker
0 Others : MS Office (Doc, Power point, Visio), Google Docs, Google Sheets
EX P E RI E N C E
Relisource Technologies, Dhaka — Sr. Software Engineer
May, 2019 - Present
Robotic Process Automation
AI Engineer
0 Implementing RPA for scraping data from documents and pdf and generating multiple reports using
UIPath
o Combining scraping data to a Chatbot application for automating real time conversation
o Robotic automation on getting individuals ID by scanning their national ID Card and proving
corresponding data matching that ID to the user
ML Prototypes
ML Engineer
0 Image classification, Object detection and localization both in Image and Video using YOLO
0 Creating custom dataset by leveling image annotation using LabelBox & Zillin
0 Understanding and implementing Convolutional Neural Model using YOLO with COCO dataset
0 Tools: Python, Tensorﬂow, YOLO, COCO
Datasoft Systems Bangladesh Limited, Dhaka — Sr. Software Engineer
August, 2015 - May, 2019
Mobio AR SDK
R&D Leado Mobio AR is an augmented reality software development kit (SDK) for mobile devices that enables the
creation of augmented reality applications. It uses computer vision technology to recognize and track
objects in real time through the camera of a mobile device.
0 Language : C++, Objective-C, OpenCV framework
0 Contributions :
0 Finding out best keypoint detector and descriptor extractor (ORB)
0 Feature matching with KNN matcher and Hamming Distance algorithm
0 Finding out homography to relates the transformation or perspective correction
o R&D on camera POSE estimation by simultaneous localization & mapping (SLAM)
Virtual Central Controller
Senior iOS Developer
0 The central zone wise/groupwise/individual indoor and outdoor IOT based AC controlling system
through mobile application for johnson Controls-Hitachi (Japan).
0 Language : Swift
0 Contributions :
0 Architectural design with Viper design pattern & POP
o Multi-storyboard adaptive UI design with Autolayout & Trait class
0 Restful web API integration & consuming jSON data with Codable & Object Mapper
0 Bug fixing, code optimization & managing version control (Git) of the project
0 Collaborating teammates, followed Agile methodologies with sprint plan.
0 Support Objective—C and Swift interoperability for integrating 3rd party libraries.
0 Implemented Core data framework, NSCache and NSCoding protocol for caching data
0 UI testing and Unit testing with Swinject, Quick and Nimble frameworks
o Documenting source code with Doxygen and HeaderDoc tools.
Nissan Driver’s Guide
Senior iOS Developer
0 The Nissan Driver’s Guide is an application based on Augmented Reality Technology that recognizes
vehicle content through the camera of your smartphone. It will help you to learn and understand more
about your vehicle. (Nissan worldwide)
0 Language : Objective-C
0 Contributions :
o Involved from requirement analysis to app store deployment
o Implemented MVC, MVP & MWM architectural design pattern
0 Multi-storyboard UI design with Autolayout, Nib and Coding
o Restful web API integration with AFNetworking and consuming jSON data
0 Integrated augmented reality SDK like Metaio and Vuforia
0 Bug fixing, code optimization & managing version control (Git)
o Implemented Push notification with Google Firebase analytics
0 Conduct team meeting, resolve technical issues and meeting deadline
0 Code review and analysis with Sonarqube to detect bug and vulnerabilities
0 Unit testing and UI testing using XCTest
https://itunes.apple.com/us[app/nissan—drivers ~guide/id912672032
Infinity Driver’s Guide
Senior iOS Developer
0 The Infinity Driver’s Guide is an application based on Augmented Reality Technology that recognizes
vehicle content through the camera of your smartphone. It can also render 3D model after recognizing
objects with camera. Developed five distinct apps for Europe, Middle East, Hongkong, China and
Worldwide region with distinct features.
0 Language : Objective-C
0 Contributions :
o Involved from requirement analysis to app store deployment
o Implemented MVC, MVP and other behavioral design pattern
0 Multi-storyboard UI design with Autolayout, Nib and Coding
o Restful web API integration with NSURLSession and consuming jSON data
0 Bridging augmented reality SDK Vuforia and Apple’s ARKit for object detection
0 Bug fixing, code optimization & managing version control
0 Leading team & overseas their work for quality and guideline compliance.
0 Code review and analysis with Sonarqube to detect bug and vulnerabilities.
0 Unit testing and UI testing using XCTest
mp5:l/itunes.amlecom/nl/ama/infiniti—drivers—guide/id1067800246
ICH Cloud Cost Forecasting
Data Scientist
o Accomplishment : Reduced the yearly cloud cost from $2 to 25 Cent, saved 87% cloud cost per gateway
0 Language & tools : R, MS Excel
0 Contributions :
o Performed exploratory data analysis on structured data to forecast the JCH cloud cost per
gateway0 Used Excel Sheet for reporting & visualizing the insights
0 Proposed solutions to improve system efficiencies and reducing total expenses
Sentiment Analysis
Data Scientist
o Accomplishment : Sentiment analysis with recurrent neural network
0 Language & tools : Python, Tensorﬂow
0 Contributions :
0 Exploring how word embeddings are used for sentiment analysis using neural network
0 Applying and implementing word vector embeddings to language modeling
0 Performing and implementing sequence classification using RNNs
0 Used back propagation and Naive Bayes algorithm
Predicting buyer characteristics
Data Scientist
o Accomplishment : Find out active buyers of a website, analysed their characteristics and provide
offerings based on their buying history and product correlation
0 Language & tools : R, Tableau
0 Contributions :
o Performed exploratory data analysis on structured data to predict the userbehavior
0 Finding out correlation of their buying products with time series and classifying customers
based on their buying capabilities.
0 Proposed solutions to improve sells and earning more revenue
Chatbots
AI Engineer
0 Accomplishment: Making some automated conversational chatbot
0 Language & tools : Dialogue Flow, Amazon Skill Kit, Alexa, Google Home
0 Contributions :
o Developed chatbot for hospital receptionist, flight booking, tour guide and so on.
0 Used Google’ s Dialogue Flow framework with Firebase
0 Used Amazon Skill Kit for Alexa by writing command in AWS lambda
o R&D on natural language processing for making chatbot in Bengali
Nascenia Limited, Dhaka — iOS Developer
August, 2013 -July, 2015
Horsecount
iOS Developer
0 Horsecount is a management system and a market & meeting place for horse-keepers as well as an online
community of peoples who share a passion for horses. This app is currently out of store but can get the
info from here.
0 Language : Titanium (Cross platform)
0 Contributions :
0 Used to with both Appcelerator Alloy Framework and Traditional Titanium
0 User Interface design for both iOS & Android.
0 Restful API integration using HttpClientRequest
o Implemented Facebook, Twitter SDK
0 Implemented real time messaging with Pubnub
o Implemented push notification with Firebase
o Interacting with client, answering his enquiries and effectively handling the complaints.
https:llitunes.apple.coml,uslapplhorsecountlid911963831
Smyril Line
iOS Developer
0 This app is useful for guests onboarding Norro'na on the crossing between Denmark, Faroe Islands and
Iceland. Points of interest and services onboard are displayed. Guests can also follow the trip on the Ship
Tracker.
0 Language : Objective-C
0 Contributions :
0 Track ships using Core Location Framework with Mapkit
0 Shown ship tracking overlay path along with Atlantic Ocean with Annotation
o Implemented Bluetooth low energy with iBeacon technology
https:flittines.apple.com/us/app/smyril~line/id1063668691 (In maintenance)
Bhoganti (iOS)
iOS DeveloperBhoganti app allows you to submit your complaints against a brand, organization, or store of any kind.
You can compare brands and view comments submitted by other users. The app was developed in Swift.
mtpimines.applecomluslappmhogami/idg 6,0951%
Bdipo (iOS)
iOS Developer
This is the hub for IPO services in Bangladesh. You can generate IPO application form automatically,
search result & get IPO related news from this app. The app was developed in Objective-C.
hittpszllitunes.applecom/us[app/bdipo/id981919422
E D U CATI O N
.:. BSc (Hons) in Computer Science & Engineering, 2008 — 2012
University of Dhaka, Bangladesh
.:. Higher Secondary Certificate (HSC), 2006
Yasin College, Faridpur, Dhaka, Bangladesh
.:. Secondary School Certificate (SSC), 2004
Police Lines High School, Faridpur, Dhaka, Bangladesh
TRAINING & CERTIFICATION
.:. Certified by Bangladesh Hi-tech Park on Data Science with R.
.:. Certified by “simplileam.com” by completing their online course on Data Science.
.:. Trained to implement Machine Learning algorithms efficiently by doing various online courses from
Coursera and Pluralsight.
.:. Completed a training on advanced “ Statistics and Mathematics ” for Machine Learning.
.:. Completed the online course “Docker and Kubernetes. The Complete Guide” from Udemy.
.:. IELTS training on British Council
PERSONAL IN FORMATION
0:. Full Name : Md. Nurul Islam
.:. Nick Name : Nuibb
.:. Father's Name : Md. Gulzar Azam
.:. Mother's Name : Saleha Pervin
.:. Present Address : Dhaka Housing, Shyamoli, Dhaka, Bangladesh
.:. Permanent Address :Asiruddin road, West Khawaspur, Faridpur Sadar, Faridpur
.:. Religion: Islam
.:. Nationality : Bangladeshi by Birth
.:. Language : Fluent in speaking and writing English
.:. Hobbies & Interests : Programming, Football Watching & Filmmaking.